I predict that AI will become more easily interfaceable for corporate use in the next two years. This will include individual products and packages that will be purchasable by corporations for use in the workplace – think software that uses artificial intelligence to fill out and organize spreadsheets. My prediction draws from personal experience, as I’ve worked two different internships for medium-sized corporations in the past two years. In both cases, AI use in the workplace was largely limited to personal preferences. For example, a coworker used Chat-GPT to assist in brainstorming ideas for a presentation. That being said, the use of AI technologies was in no way standardized and not mandateable by any means. However, many of my coworkers and managers were excited but skeptical about the emergence of large-scale use of AI to make work more efficient.
Companies such as OpenAI, Microsoft, and Google will create AI products that they think they can sell to other companies. Companies will buy these products as a means of cutting costs. According to Bernard Marr of Harvard Business Review, “Generative AI can automate manual and repetitive tasks” (Marr). I predict that companies will purchase these products and employ less workers, as many “manual and repetitive tasks” will be done by AI. 
        This will have a variety of negative effects on the way that humanity perceives artificial intelligence. In the study panel report “Gathering Strength, Gathering Storms,” it is stated that “AI’s potential to replicate human labor at a lower cost has also raised concerns about its impact on the welfare of workers” (Littman et al., 10). Many will lose their jobs, and many will have trouble finding jobs because their skills will be easily replaceable by AI. The authors of the research paper “Sparks of Artificial General Intelligence: Early experiments with GPT-4” make a similar claim, that “the capabilities of GPT-4 will shift perceptions on tasks that require human effort, potentially leading to the displacement of jobs and broader economic influences” (Bubeck et al., 82). This will initially cause a mass distrust and hatred of AI, as it will affect the livelihood of white-collar workers.
        Further down the line, I predict that the public’s perception of AI will lighten as the economy takes time to adjust. Jobs will initially be displaced, but will eventually be replaced by people proficient in IT, computer programming, and ethics. This same phenomenon has been observed historically, such as in the transition from hand-written work to personal computers in the 90s and early 2000s. Many were worried about the prospect of computers replacing their jobs, but many were also able to adjust and learn new skills. According to James Bessen of Boston University School of Law, “Computerized occupations substitute for other occupations, shifting employment and requiring new skills” (Bessen 1). Since jobs will eventually be created and perhaps even create additional efficiency, public perception of AI will improve. Therefore, the widespread adoption of AI in the workplace will be a long and arduous process, but it will be accepted by humanity in the long run.